

cryptography is the art of encrypting a
message for that to partners can
exchange a message that they understand
while an adversary was obtained a copy
of the message cannot decrypt it it has
become a tradition to name the two
partners Alice and Bob the adversary the
eavesdropper is usually named Eve
a cheap joke I must admit but I am NOT
responsible for the joke cryptography
goes back to antiquity and has a rich
history it is important for diplomacy
and for military affairs and in the
recent period it has found major
applications for the security of the
exchange of information on Internet the
one-time pad technique was invented in
the 19th century by Frank Miller and
Joseph mobile now and patented in 1919
by Gilbert vahanam we used an encoding
decoding key read from a punched tape
the key can be lists of numbers on a pad
and reduced to a microscopic size as
popularized by movies or novels

one time bad cryptography uses two
identical encoding decoding key that is
to say two copies of a series of random
characters in the hands of the two
partners Alice and Bob here we will only
consider 2 possible values 0 and 1 1
partner for instance a Lisa encodes her
message by adding to each bit of the
message the random bit coming from the
key Bob was an exact copy of the
encoding key can easily decipher the
message
by adding the random bit of the key to
the corresponding encoded bit in that
scheme Alice and Bob must have the
encoding decoding key in advance and
keep them secret but the encoded message
can be sent on a public channel even if
the eavesdropper gets a copy of the
encoded message he or she will not be
able to decode it in contrast to most
cryptography methods one time pad has
been proven absolutely secure by Claude
Shannon the father of information theory
is demonstration is purely mathematical
and has the solidity of a mathematical
theorem but this absolute security is
based on a strict condition the message
cannot be longer than the key otherwise
as there are many storica examples it
would be possible for crypto analysts to
use regularities to decipher the
messages so when message as long as
Sookie has been sent the key must be
renewed in order to exchange a new
message Alice and Bob need to obtain a
new pair of identical encoding decoding
case this exchange of K must be
absolutely secure that is to say Alice
and Bob need to be sure that no
eavesdropper
has been able to obtain us
a copy of the key they are just shared

it turns out that quantum technology can
be used to solve that problem of secure
K sharing the technology named quantum
key distribution qkd consists of writing
the key on a quantum support and send it
on a channel that should remain
confidential
the fundamental idea of qkd is that
after sharing the key Alice and Bob can
make a test to check that nobody has
been able to eavesdrop the information
traveling on the quantum Channel if the
test fails they renounce to use a key
but if the test is passed they have a
new key they can use whenever they want
the fundamental reason why quantum
physics ensures the security of the key
distribution is that any measurement on
an individual quantum object leaves a
trace a footprint in other words it is
impossible for Eve to read the
information written on a quantum object
without perturbing it this perturbation
can be detected by Allison Bob who can
also communicate on a channel that can
be a classical public channel which does
not need to be secured among several
methods of quantum key distribution I
present here the celebrated scheme
called DB 84 which was described by its
inventors charles bennett and jill Brasa
in 1994 the theoretical scheme is
general and could use any quantum object
with two valued observable in practice
the polarization of a photon turns out
to be the privileged support of quantum
key distribution

in order to generate the key that will
be sent to Bob Alice's a source of
polarized photon and she can choose a
polarization of each photon among four
possibilities associated with two
different linear polarization basis two
are along the axis x and y and are often
noted V and H for vertical and
horizontal the two of the polarizations
are at 45 degrees and are usually noted
R and L for right and left
each set corresponds to two orthogonal
polarizations that is to say the two
output channels of polarizing beam
splitter conveniently oriented the two
sets correspond to two polarizing beam
splitters at 45 degrees from each other
they are associated with two non
commuting observables as you can check
using the expressions I have given above
when Bob receives a photon Yoon Eliza's
it's polarization with a polarization
beam splitter of which chooses randomly
the orientation between the two
possibilities either vertical or at 45
degrees if his choice corresponds to a
polarization sent by ELISA he obtains a
result corresponding to the value chosen
by Alice this is the case for instance
if Alice sends a photon with a V or H
polarization and if it puts is beam
splitter at 0 degree from the x-axis but
if we make the wrong choice that is to
say if he put his polarizer at 45
degrees from X when Alyssa sent H of the
photon then he obtains a random result
uncorrelated with the initial choice of
a Lisa so it gets the right information
in after cases only
it may seem a poor result but in fact
there is a simple way for Amana Lisa to
know what are the right choices and keep
these ones only this is called
reconciliation in order for Alice and
Bob to know what were the right choices
it's a feces that Bob announces on the
public channel what we're is choices of
basis and then Alice reprise which ones
were correct again on the public channel
Alison Bob now know what were the
situations when the choice of Bob was
the right one and they keep these cases
only there are now two identical
encoding/decoding case the exchange of
information between Alice and Bob about
the chosen orientations is done on the
public channel it can be listened to by
Eve but we will see now that is not the
trillion dollar when presenting the qkd
scheme I told you that Alice and Bob can
be sure that there is no spy was
obtained a copy of this key can we
demonstrate that it is indeed the case
in order to answer such equation let us
put ourselves in the position of the
eavesdropper and try to get some
information about the key sent by Alice
to Bob at the end of the reconciliation
procedure what would you do pause the
video and think about it

let us pretend we are Eve and try to
obtain the same information as Bob
without being detected to get
information we must intercept the
polarized photon and make a polarization
measurement on it but that Bob will
receive nothing and does this fit on
this photon will not be used for the
reconciliation procedure so we must be a
smarter evil after doing the measurement
we will use a 1 Photon Source to resend
a photon towards Bob with the
polarization we have just found ball
will then receive a photo with a
polarization that we know so if this
photon is used for the key and
information we will get on the public
channel we will know that value of a bit
indicate let us now take the point of
view of Alice and Bob were as smart and
know as much quantum optics as if they
understand that if you do what we have
just been describing measuring a photon
polarization and resending a photon with
the results I have just found can they
detect such maneuver the answer is yes
can you find how

you do not find yet I'll give you a hint
what Alice and Bob can do is sacrifice a
subset of the key they are established
after reconciliation more precisely Bob
will choose randomly some of the cases
where they agreed and tell on the public
channel what he found in disguises with
this information
Alice can tell that there is an
eavesdropper is there is one can you
tell why I am sure most of you I found
the answer let us describe it in detail
since it will allow us to fully
appreciate where the quantum nature of
the signal plays a role
the series of cases shown here allow us
to understand there are cases when it
does not choose a simpler ization
orientation at the one decided by ELISA
here it is cases number 2 3 and 5 in
these cases the result found by Eve is
random but this is not the point the
fact is that in these cases ball will
find a random result which means that in
half these cases he finds the wrong
direction as shown here in cases 2 & 5
so when receiving the results found by
Bob in cases 2 & 5 Alice will observe
that they are wrong although Bob had
chosen the right basis
she will thus conclude that there is a
spy on the channel and 1 Bob that this
game must not be used can you tell what
is a fraction of the cases where Bob
gets a wrong result although we have
chosen the right basis

did you like that game where you have to
put yourself alternatively in the
position of Alice and Bob then of Eve
then again Alice and Bob if you like it
you may want to work in cryptography but
you must know that we have only sketched
the kind of reasoning that professional
cryptographers have to do to evaluate
the security of a scheme nevertheless
this simple scheme is enough to
understand the fundamental reason why a
quantum scheme can be absolutely secure
it is the impossibility to find the
polarization of a single photon if you
do not know what is a basis of
polarization that was used to polarize a
photon you cannot find what disapper
ization in fact this property is a
general property in quantum physics it
is impossible to determine the full
quantum state of a single quantum object
any measurement amounts to projecting
the quantum state on a basis depending
on your measurement so all you can get
is a value of the projection of the
quantum state on the basis you choose
many physicists try to find a way to
overcome this impossibility to fully
determine the quantum state of a single
quantum object this stimulated the
discovery of a very important theorem
the no-cloning theorem which plays a
fundamental role in proofs of the
security of quantum key distribution

